[strings] improve en/en-GB strings (#5059)
organicmaps/organicmaps: data/strings/strings.txt

  [fuel]
    comment = Search category for fuel stations; any changes should be duplicated in categories.txt @fuel!
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Fuel

Reviewer: Nobody says or types Fuel neither in the US nor in the UK.

Author: my concern was people in en-GB getting confused that there wasn't a 'Diesel' category, but after considering it, i think it's best to leave as it was 👍

Author: yeah, i think what it was before will do, or at least it'll require more consideration :)

  [share_bookmarks_email_body]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Hello!\n\nAttached are my bookmarks, please open them in Organic Maps. If you don't have it installed you can download it here: https://omaps.app/get?kmz\n\nEnjoy travelling with Organic Maps!

Reviewer 2: Should be ";" rather than ","; this is a run-on sentence.

  [email_error_body]
    comment = Alert text
    tags = ios

>     en = The email client has not been set up. Please configure it or contact us another way at %@

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    en = The email client has not been set up. Please configure it or contact us at %@
```

  [email_error_title]
    comment = Alert title
    tags = ios

>     en = Error sending mail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    en = Error sending email
```

  [editor_done_dialog_1]
    tags = ios

>     en = You’ve changed the world map! Don't keep it to yourself, tell your friends and edit it together.

Reviewer 2: "; tell" not ", tell".

  [editor_done_dialog_1]
    tags = ios

>     en = You’ve changed the world map! Don't keep it to yourself, Tell your friends and edit it together.

Reviewer 3: Replace "Tell" with "tell"?

Author: fixed

  [editor_report_problem_duplicate_place_title]
    tags = android

>     en = Duplicate place

Reviewer 2: This is really about a duplicate object in the map database.  Duplicate place sounds like it is about the real world.   This may be hard to change.  The diff above is perfectly ok, so this is really a side comment.

Reviewer 2: I don't think duplicated vs duplicate matters and I don't see an en_US preference for duplicated, or a reason to have en_GB and en_US be different.

What I meant is that the real issue is that there are two map objects representing a single real-world entity.   That's "duplicate map database entry".   There is no duplication *in the real world*, which is what place implies.   I agree that casually many would say that.   I might say "Place appears multiple times on the map" to make that clearer.

Author: That is true, but i think this is ok in context. A user wouldn't create a report if there are two identical places on the map that are also there in real life. I reckon it's probably fine :)

  [login]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = OpenStreetMap Login

Reviewer: Does it fit now to the screen? Does it look good or duplicate another OpenStreetMap string on the same screen?

Reviewer 2: Given the screenshot, I think we definitely should use the "OpenStreetMap Login".  From a UI viewpoint I think it's important that the biggest title text immediately gives people the right impression.

  [osm_presentation]
    comment = Text in About and OSM Login screens. %@ is replaced by a local, human readable date.
    tags = android

>     en = Cartographic data from OpenStreetMap as of %@. OSM is like Wikipedia for maps, where you can add & edit places for users around the world.

Reviewer 2: Do not use & in normal text.  Use "and" instead.  "&" is only appropriate in a few contexts.

Reviewer 2: Is there a preference for using & in place of and in straightforward text in en_GB?   To my en_US eyes it comes across as informality (to the point of being sloppy) creeping into text that should be Standard Written English.  However, <rant>I'm fairly old school and growing up I read style guides form the 1950s, so I'm on the prescriptive grammer side somewhat, thinking it is best to do what the kernel of the educated elders thinks is correct, rather than going along with the modern state of television and social media.</rant>

Author: Honestly, not sure. i'll change it to 'and'. To my knowledge it's fairly normal, but that could just be because my generation grew up with the internet 😅

  [login_to_make_edits_visible]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Login to upload your changes for other users.

Reviewer: No. We should teach users about OSM everywhere. Assume that a new user does not know about OSM, and thinks that we (developers) add data on the map. And we should _teach_ _all_ users about OSM's existence. To redirect their map-related issues there, not to us.

Author: as a contributor to OSM, i absolutely agree :) the issue is that the login page says OSM too much. maybe the URL could be included in the openstreetmap info card at the top?

Author: i'll leave in the link for now, mentioning OSM too much can be fixed another time :)

>     en = Login to upload your changes for other users.

Reviewer 2: This is really about pushing changes to the global database, not "other users" which might be interpreted as OM.

So it should be

"Log in to openstreetmap.org to publish your changes to the world."

(Log in vs login is unclear to me.   I view login as computer jargon and log in as standard English.

Author: good points, i'll change the wording :)

  [error_enter_correct_instagram_page]
    tags = android

>     en = Enter a valid Instagram username or URL

Reviewer: Non-technical users do not know what URL means.

Author: fair, will change back

>     en = Enter a valid Instagram username or URL

Reviewer 2: Instagram is a proprietary service that invades user privacy.  I suggest removing support.

  [error_enter_correct_twitter_page]
    tags = android

>     en = Enter a valid Twitter username or URL

Reviewer 2: As above, but I'll stop now since I wanted to say it once but I don't want to just be annoying.

  [editor_share_to_all_dialog_message_1]
    comment = Dialog before publishing the modifications to the public map.
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Make sure you didn't enter any personal data.

Reviewer 2: In standard written English, contractions should not be used.  So this change does not make sense.

Having read the text, I would say the point is not to avoid "personal" data but to avoid:

  - data that has privacy concerns and should not be published to the world, and
  - data that is not appropriate for OSM because it is not of general interest, separate from any privacy concerns

  [mobile_data_description]
    comment = NOTE to translators: please synchronize your translation with the English one.
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Mobile internet is required for map update notifications, displaying some detailed information & uploading edits.

Reviewer 2: Again do not "&".

As an aside, "displaying detailed information" is a privacy leak and should have a warning to click through.

Reviewer: "displaying detailed information" is about opening external websites from the place information page. What kind of privacy leak do you see here?

Reviewer 2: When someone is using offline map data, information about where they are and what POIs they are looking at stays on device, and is not available to any third party.   The OM download server sees "this IP address downloaded a map of Country X at this time", but that's pretty coarse.

What I'm concerned about is that finding a POI  and clicking "more info" somehow and having it load a page with that POI's identity in it discloses that some device at that IP address is interested.  Given other surveillance, that's likely to be useful for targeted ads.   This is often not a big deal, but when I use something like OM or OsmAnd I don't expect information about my browsing around to leave the device.    I am trying to suggest that users should be aware that such an information disclosure will happen before they take whatever action triggers it.   I realize that these comments are from a +3 standard deviation paranoid!

If it's just that you can click on URLs and they are opened, that's ok (because it's a URL and what else would clicking do), and then it's not necessary to warn the user that asking their browser to open URLs won't work well if they are offline -- that's then not about OM.

Reviewer: For any POI from OSM, no server requests are done in Organic Maps. They were done in MapsMe (likely to update user reviews), and this message was left from MapsMe times. As I wrote, now users must tap links manually.

Requests can be done now when you select your bookmark with an HTML description, and it displays images or loads some other remote content (music, video). But that's the user's responsibility, he/she created or imported this content.

We're also thinking about loading images for Wikipedia articles in the future if users allowed it.

Reviewer 2: That all sounds reasonable, with wikipedia image loading being opt in, default off.   I didn't mean to assert that things were bad, just that the help text was hard to understand and that therefore the reality was unclear.

Author: Will remove that bit as discussed above 👍

  [big_font]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Increase map label size

Reviewer: No. It is less clear.

Author: see https://github.com/organicmaps/organicmaps/pull/5059/commits/ca0bf3d1de80b67b4d9d37f5a78418d9a6cff58c#r1183019239

>     en = Increase map label size

Reviewer 2: Agreed it is less clear.

`en = Increase font size for map labels`

Author: tweaked to 'Increase size for map labels', as font isn't really correct and text is also implied by 'labels'

Reviewer 2: That's great and will be understood.

  [transliteration_title]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Transliterate into Latin

Reviewer 2: I see Latin as a language, not an alphabet.   I would call the alphabet Roman.  However, wikipedia disagrees.

Still, I would say  "Transliteration into Latin alphabet" to make it clearer.

  [profile]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = OpenStreetMap Profile

Reviewer 2: profile is not a proper noun.  Do  not capitalize it.

  [crash_reports_description]
    tags = android

>     en = We may use your data to improve Organic Maps. Changes will take effect after you restart the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    en = We may use your crash reports to improve Organic Maps. Changes will take effect after you restart the app.
```

Reviewer 2: Agreed on @biodranik  wording suggestion.

I do not understand what changes take effect.  opting into or out of crash reports  I would expect to be immediate.  I would expect the time from submitting a crash report to a resulting fix being available to me much longer than the time it takes to restart :-)  But seriously, I have no idea what this means.

  [power_managment_description]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = When automatic mode is selected, battery draining features will be disabled depending on the current battery level.

Reviewer 2: Battery draining features  is hard to understand.

```
When automatic mode is selected, the app attempts to use less power when the battery level is below a threshold.
```

But really, change the text to

```
Try to reduce power usage at the expense of some functionality
```
and then have the three choices be
```
Never
When battery is below 50%
Always
```

Reviewer 2: Or just skip the description and show "never/when battery is low/always". 
The `night mode` screen gets this right.

Author: agreed and updated :) I won't specify a percentage because idk what 'low battery' is defined as in this case, but can be fixed in future

  [enable_logging_warning_message]
    tags = android

>     en = Enable this option temporarily to record and send detailed diagnostic logs about your issue to us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    en = Enable this option temporarily to record and manually send detailed diagnostic logs about your issue to us using "Report a bug" in the Help dialog.
```

>     en = Enable this option temporarily to record and send detailed diagnostic logs about your issue to us.

Reviewer 2: This should caution that it may send location or destination info.

Author: done

  [unable_to_calc_alert_subtitle]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Unfortunately a route cannot be found, likely due to the routing options you have enabled. Please disable some and try again.

Reviewer: Change is better than disable. Enabling may also help. Did you test this dialog?

Author: changed to 'Unfortunately a route cannot be found, likely due to the routing options you have selected. Please change them and try again.'
it's about the same length as the old string, so should be ok. i can't find a route to test it with annoyingly

>     en = Unfortunately a route cannot be found, likely due to the routing options you have enabled. Please disable some and try again.

Reviewer 2: Also, it's really hard to say *why*.

```
The app was unable to compute a route.  This could be because of the chosen routing options, because OpenStreetMap data is incorrect or incomplete, or because a route truly does not exist.
```

As an example I just played with OM to compute a route to a restaurant.  I got three different routes for car/bike/walk, with the walking route taking trails in conservation land.  All routes were reasonable.  I then asked for public transit and was told there was no route.   This is also correct as taking a bus does not reduce the walking distance.

Author: i don't think it's possible that a route doesn't exist ;)

updated to 
> A route could not be found. This may be caused by your routing options or incomplete OpenStreetMap data. Please change your routing options and retry.

Reviewer 2: It's totally possible.   Try asking for a walking route from someplace in London to the Massachusetts state house.
Or from Juneau, Alaska to Anchorage, except  GraphHopper says to take the ferry, which is not walking.

https://www.openstreetmap.org/directions?engine=graphhopper_foot&route=51.501%2C-0.127%3B42.359%2C-71.064

  [keyboard_availability_alert]
    tags = ios

>     en = Keyboard is unavailable while driving

Reviewer 2: I think "not available" is better.  unavailable has a connotation of meeting scheduling

  [dialog_routing_change_end_carplay]
    tags = ios

>     en = Unable to build a route to your destination. Please choose another end point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    en = Unable to build a route to your destination. Please choose another end (or start) point
```

>     en = Unable to build a route to your destination. Please choose another end point

Reviewer 2: find a route, not build.

I don't see why this is different from the can't-find-route dialog above.  Is it the same issue, or is something different?

If someone wants to go to X, telling them to choose Y as a destination instead is goofy.

Author: Changed to find. The one above is mobile and this string is for carplay, where it may not be possible to change the start point.

  [download_map_carplay]
    tags = ios

>     en = Please download maps in the Organic Maps app on your mobile device

Reviewer: A shorter version on smaller screens is preferrable.

Reviewer 2: Yes, shorter is better.  The point is "Maps can only be downloaded on the Android device." but I don't know the carplay term for that.

Author: fixed by changing to `Please download maps in the app on your mobile device`

  [moremonth_ago_sorttype]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Over a month ago

Reviewer 2: More than is normal.  This is not an improvement.

  [button_layer_isolines]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Isolines

Reviewer 2: isolines is sort of accurate technically in a non-helpful way.  I found "terrain" strange.    The normal term in en_US is "contour lines".  I think that's the term in en_GB also (but I'm a Yank).

Author: agreed, changed to contour lines

  [isolines_activation_error_dialog]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = To activate and use isolines, please update or download the map of the area

Reviewer 2: ```
Activating contour lines requires map data for the area
````

Seriously, are people trying to look at contour lines when they don't have data?  How about just grey it out without data, or don't warn?

Author: tweaked to' Activating contour lines requires downloading map data for this area'

  [isolines_location_error_dialog]
    tags = android,ios

>     en = Isolines are not yet available in this area

Reviewer 2: Contour lines

  [enable_show_on_lock_screen_description]
    tags = android
    comment = Description in preferences

>     en = When enabled, the app will display over the lockscreen so you won't need to unlock your device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    en = When enabled, the app will work on the lock screen even when your device is locked.
```
